.TH JTSIM 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtsim \- run JTFRAME simulations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtsim
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B jtsim
runs a core simulation from a verification folder, typically
\fBcores/<core>/ver/<setname>\fR.
It prepares macro files with
\fBjtframe cfgstr\fR,
generates local memory and MMR outputs with
\fBjtframe mem\fR
and
\fBjtframe mmr\fR,
builds simulator file lists with
\fBjtframe files sim\fR,
and then launches the selected simulator.
.PP
If a set name is requested,
\fBjtsim\fR
uses the ROM preparation flow driven by
\fBjtframe mra\fR
through
\fBgetset.sh\fR
to obtain the right
\fB.rom\fR
file and DIP switch defaults.
.PP
The script must be sourced into a JTFRAME environment first, usually by running
\fBsource setprj.sh\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-args
Pass additional arguments directly to the selected simulator.
.TP
.B \-batch
Tell
\fBjtsim\fR
that it is being run by a batch process.
.TP
.B \-cov
Enable coverage collection for Verilator runs.
Annotated coverage output is written under
\fBcov/\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-d " macro
Define a simulation macro.
The macro name is validated before being added to the generated macro outputs.
.TP
.BI "\-debug_bus " value
Set
\fBJTFRAME_SIM_DEBUG\fR
to the given value.
.TP
.B \-dir
When used with
\fB-setname\fR,
run the simulation inside a directory named after the set.
.TP
.B \-deep
Enable waveform dumping and request a deeper signal dump.
If followed by a number, dumping starts at that frame.
.TP
.BI "\-dipsw " hex
Set
\fBJTFRAME_SIM_DIPS\fR
to the given hexadecimal value.
If this option is omitted,
\fBjtsim\fR
tries to load default DIP switches from
\fB$ROM/<setname>.dip\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-dump " frame
Set
\fBJTFRAME_SIM_IODUMP\fR
to the given frame number.
This uses the IOCTL dump interface and requires
\fBJTFRAME_IOCTL_RD\fR.
.TP
.B \-fast
Increase C++ optimization for Verilator simulations.
This can speed up long runs, but may reduce stability in some cases.
.TP
.BI "\-frame " count
Simulate up to the given number of frames.
.TP
.B \-fx68k
Keep FX68K support files for Icarus Verilog runs.
.TP
.B \-gates
Run a gate-level simulation.
This mode is not available with Verilator.
.TP
.BI "\-gfx " hex
Set
\fBJTFRAME_SIM_GFXEN\fR
to the given hexadecimal value.
.TP
.B \-help
.br
.B \-h
.br
.B \-\-help
Show the short command-line help.
Use
\fBman jtsim\fR
for the full reference.
.TP
.B \-inputs
Enable the
\fBSIM_INPUTS\fR
macro and load cabinet inputs either from the file following
\fB-inputs\fR
or from an existing
\fBsim_inputs.hex\fR.
.PP
If the supplied file ends in
\fB.cab\fR,
it is converted with
\fBjtframe cab\fR.
Otherwise it is copied directly to
\fBsim_inputs.hex\fR.
.PP
Plain hexadecimal input files use one active-high value per line:
.RS
.nf
3:0   { start[1:0], service, coin[0] }
7:4   1P joystick: up, down, left, right
10:8  buttons B3, B2, B1
11    test
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-iverilog
Use Icarus Verilog as the simulator.
.TP
.B \-keepcpp
Do not overwrite the local Verilator support files such as
\fBtest.cpp\fR.
.TP
.B \-lint
Run Verilator in lint mode instead of running a simulation.
.TP
.B \-load
Load the ROM through the simulated SPI/download path instead of relying on
prebuilt SDRAM bank files.
This is slower, but it reproduces the download path.
.TP
.B \-mist
Use the MiST simulation target.
.TP
.B \-modelsim
Use ModelSim as the simulator.
.TP
.B \-modules
Accepted for compatibility.
The current script ignores the value.
.TP
.B \-mister
.br
.B \-mr
Use the MiSTer simulation target.
This switches the top module to
\fBmister_test\fR
and prepares a fake
\fBbuild_id.v\fR.
.TP
.B \-ncverilog
Use NCVerilog as the simulator.
.TP
.B \-nosnd
.br
.B \-q
Disable sound-related hardware for a faster simulation by defining
\fBNOSOUND\fR,
\fBNOFM\fR,
and
\fBNOSSG\fR.
.TP
.B \-pause
Enable the pause DIP setting.
Equivalent to defining
\fBDIP_PAUSE\fR.
.TP
.B \-pocket
Use the Pocket target and switch the top module to
\fBtest\fR.
.TP
.B \-questasim
Use QuestaSim as the simulator.
.TP
.B \-safe
Disable some Verilator optimizations that may stall elaboration.
.TP
.B \-scene
.br
.BI "\-s " path
Simulate a saved scene dump.
This mode uses the dump file and
\fBdump2bin.sh\fR
to prepare a short replay-oriented simulation.
.TP
.BI "\-setname " name
Build or reuse the ROM for the given MAME set name.
This drives the ROM-generation flow before simulation starts.
.TP
.B \-shaup
Update the SHA file used to validate dumped frame images.
.TP
.B \-showcmd
Print the simulator command instead of running it.
.TP
.B \-sidi128
Use the SiDi128 target.
.TP
.B \-skipROM
Do not regenerate the
\fB.rom\fR
file when using
\fB-setname\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-srate " rate
Set the sampling rate used when converting raw audio output to WAV.
.TP
.B \-stats
Enable SDRAM statistics by defining
\fBJTFRAME_SDRAM_STATS\fR.
.TP
.B \-synap
Use the SynaptiCAD simulator.
.TP
.B \-test
Enable the test DIP setting.
Equivalent to defining
\fBDIP_TEST\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-time " milliseconds
Simulate for the given number of milliseconds.
.TP
.B \-u
.br
.BI "\-undef " macro
Undefine a simulation macro.
.TP
.B \-verilator
Use Verilator as the simulator.
This is the default unless another simulator is selected.
.TP
.B \-video
Enable video dumping.
If followed by a number, that number is used as the frame limit.
.TP
.B \-w
.RI [ frame ]
Enable waveform dumping for a smaller set of signals.
If a frame number is given, dumping starts there.
.TP
.B \-xcelium
Use Xcelium as the simulator.
.TP
.B \-zoom
Enlarge rendered output images.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B core.def
Simulator-oriented macro definitions generated by
\fBjtframe cfgstr\fR.
.TP
.B defmacros.h
Verilator C/C++ macro header generated by
\fBjtframe cfgstr --output cpp\fR.
.TP
.B game.f
.br
.B jtsim_vhdl.f
.br
.B filtered.f
Simulation file lists derived from the core and target file descriptions.
.TP
.B rom.bin
Symbolic link to the selected ROM image for the current set.
.TP
.BI "sdram_bank" n ".bin"
Prebuilt SDRAM bank contents reused by later simulations.
.TP
.B sim_inputs.hex
Cabinet inputs for frame-by-frame replay.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-cab (1),
.BR jtframe-cfgstr (1),
.BR jtframe-files (1),
.BR jtframe-mem (1),
.BR jtframe-mra (1),
.BR jtutil-sdram (1)
