.TH JTUTIL-VCD-FRAME-DIFF 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtutil-vcd-frame-diff \- compare later frames against a reference frame
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtutil vcd frame-diff
.RI "scope [file] [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtutil vcd frame-diff\fR
compares one reference frame against one or more later frames for the selected
signal scope in a VCD or FST file.
.SS Scope Syntax
.IP \[bu] 2
Use
\fB.\fR
to describe the hierarchy path inside the VCD, for example
\fBu_obj\fR
or
\fBu_video.u_obj\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
Use
\fB/\fR
only once, at the end, to separate the scope from the signal glob.
.IP \[bu] 2
The part before
\fB/\fR
matches an instance path inside the VCD hierarchy.
.IP \[bu] 2
The part after
\fB/\fR
is a glob applied to signal names inside that scope.
.IP \[bu] 2
Brace expansion is supported in the signal glob, for example
\fBwr_{a,b}\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
Wildcards follow shell-style globbing, so
\fBwr_*\fR
matches
\fBwr_en\fR,
\fBwr_data\fR,
and similar names.
.SH EXAMPLES
.RS
.nf
jtutil vcd frame-diff u_obj
jtutil vcd frame-diff u_obj/wr_*
jtutil vcd frame-diff u_video.u_obj/wr_{a,b} test.fst
jtutil vcd frame-diff --when wr_en==1 u_obj/wr_*
.fi
.RE
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.BI "\-\-frames " range
Comparison frame or range, such as
\fB5\fR,
\fB8-\fR,
or
\fB10-12\fR.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-\-keep
Keep the generated comparison files.
.TP
.BI "\-\-ref " frame
Reference frame.
The default is 2.
.TP
.BI "\-\-when " expr
Compare rows only when the given condition is true, for example
\fBwr_en==1\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtutil (1),
.BR jtutil-vcd (1)
