.TH JTFRAME-CFGSTR 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-cfgstr \- expand JTFRAME macros and cfgstr templates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe cfgstr
.RI [ core-name ]
.RI [ flags ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS Configuration String
MiST-derived FPGA platforms, including MiSTer, send core configuration from the
FPGA to the microcontroller through a configuration string.
That string usually comes from
\fB$JTFRAME/target/<target>/cfgstr\fR,
and
\fBjtframe cfgstr\fR
expands it with the macro set of the selected core.
.PP
The same command is also the generic JTFRAME macro parser.
It can emit cfgstr text, shell assignments, Quartus Tcl, and simulator-oriented
macro definitions used by
\fBjtsim\fR.
.SS Macro Files
Macros are normally read from
\fBcores/<corename>/cfg/macros.def\fR.
That file may include additional
\fB.def\fR
files and may define target-specific sections.
Macros can also be added or removed on the command line with
\fB--def\fR
and
\fB--undef\fR.
.PP
The same macro set is used for Verilog and for generated C or C++ outputs.
For C-family outputs, macro names are emitted with a leading underscore, so
\fBABC\fR
becomes
\fB_ABC\fR.
.PP
Section names may contain shell-style globs.
Use them to override a value only for selected targets:
.RS
.nf
# defines FOO as 4
FOO=4
[sidi]
# but in the sidi platform, it will become 6
FOO=6
[mist*]
# and in mist/mister platforms, it will be 7
FOO=7
[*]
# matches all targets
.fi
.RE
.PP
Macro files can include other files with:
.RS
.nf
include <path-to-def-file>
.fi
.RE
.PP
The included path is resolved relative to the
\fB.def\fR
file containing the
\fBinclude\fR
line.
.PP
Macros prefixed with
\fBdebug\fR
are ignored in release mode:
.RS
.nf
[*]
debug SHOWINFO
ABC
.fi
.RE
.PP
If
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR
is defined,
\fBSHOWINFO\fR
is skipped while
\fBABC\fR
is still emitted.
.PP
Macros may be removed by prefixing them with a minus sign:
.RS
.nf
ABC
[mist]
\-ABC
.fi
.RE
.PP
This removes
\fBABC\fR
for the MiST target only.
.PP
Text concatenation is supported with
\fB+=\fR:
.RS
.nf
TEXT=abc
TEXT+=def
.fi
.RE
.PP
The resulting value of
\fBTEXT\fR
is
\fBabcdef\fR.
The same syntax also works with integers written in decimal, octal,
hexadecimal, or binary:
.RS
.nf
NUMBER=0b1001
NUMBER+=0b0110
.fi
.RE
.PP
The resulting value is 15, that is
\fB0b1111\fR.
No other arithmetic is performed:
\fBADD=2+3\fR
is stored as a string, not evaluated.
.SS System Name Macros
Two macros define the public name of the core and the game module connected to
the target top level.
If they are not provided explicitly, JTFRAME derives them from the core folder
and from the presence of
\fBcfg/mem.yaml\fR.
.TP
.B CORENAME
Public core name.
Default:
the core folder name.
.TP
.B GAMETOP
Game module name.
Default:
\fB$CORENAME_game\fR
or
\fB$CORENAME_game_sdram\fR.
.PP
JTFRAME also defines a macro derived from the core folder name in uppercase, so
shared HDL can test which core is being built.
.SS JTFRAME Macros
Framework-wide macros are documented in
\fB$JTFRAME/doc/macros.md\fR.
You can also run
\fBjtmacros\fR
from the shell to inspect them.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-def " list
Define one or more macros, separated by commas.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Enable release-mode parsing and skip
\fBdebug\fR
macro declarations.
.TP
.BI "\-o, \-\-output " type
Select the output format.
Common values are
\fBcfgstr\fR,
\fBbash\fR,
\fBquartus\fR,
and the simulator names accepted by
\fBjtsim\fR.
The default is
\fBcfgstr\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-target " name
Select the target platform.
Examples include
\fBmist\fR,
\fBmister\fR,
\fBsidi\fR,
\fBsidi128\fR,
\fBneptuno\fR,
\fBmc2\fR,
\fBmcp\fR,
\fBpocket\fR,
\fBsockit\fR,
\fBde1soc\fR,
and
\fBde10std\fR.
The default is
\fBmist\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-\-tpl " path
Use an explicit template file instead of the default cfgstr template.
.TP
.BI "\-u, \-\-undef " list
Remove one or more macros, separated by commas.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-files (1),
.BR jtframe-parse (1),
.BR jtsim (1)
