.TH JTFRAME-CAB "1" "April 2026" "jtframe-cab manual" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-cab \- Convert cabinet input files to sim_inputs.hex
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts cabinet input scripts (.cab) into sim_inputs.hex for simulation.
Each non-comment line expands to one or more frames of active-high cabinet
inputs. This file is normally consumed by the Verilator test bench when
SIM_INPUTS is enabled.
.PP
The command is commonly used indirectly through jtsim:
.IP
jtsim \-inputs file.cab
.PP
In that case, jtsim runs jtframe-cab, writes sim_inputs.hex in the current
simulation directory, and enables the SIM_INPUTS macro automatically.
.SH CAB FILE FORMAT
The parser accepts the following line forms:
.IP
# comment
.IP
[number of frames] [button] [button] ...
.IP
[button] [button] ...
.IP
[number of frames]
.IP
[=final frame] [button] [button] ...
.IP
[=final frame]
.IP
loop
.IP
repeat <1 or more>
.PP
If the first token is omitted, the line lasts for one frame.
A line with only a number generates idle frames.
.PP
The valid button names are:
.IP
coin, service, 1p, 2p, right, left, down, up, b1, b2, b3, test, reset
.SH TIMING SEMANTICS
The first token of a normal line controls its duration:
.TP
\fB<number>\fR
Repeat the line for that many frames.
.TP
\fB=<frame>\fR
Repeat the line until the generated output reaches that absolute frame index.
This is not a one-shot trigger. For example, \fB=170 coin\fR keeps coin asserted
through frame 170.
.PP
If a one-frame press is needed at a later frame, generate idle frames first and
then place the button on the next line.
.SH LOOPS
The \fBloop\fR line starts a loop body and does not consume a frame by itself.
The body is emitted once as it is parsed.
.PP
The \fBrepeat <n>\fR line closes the loop and makes the loop body execute
\fBn\fR times in total, including the first pass already emitted while parsing.
\fBn\fR must be at least 1.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
The generated file is always named \fBsim_inputs.hex\fR and is written in the
current working directory.
.PP
Each output line contains one hexadecimal value for one simulation frame.
The value uses active-high meanings:
.TP
bit 0
coin
.TP
bit 1
service
.TP
bits 3:2
start buttons {2p, 1p}
.TP
bits 7:4
joystick {up, down, left, right}
.TP
bits 10:8
buttons {b3, b2, b1}
.TP
bit 11
test
.TP
bit 12
reset
.PP
The Verilator test bench inverts these bits internally before driving the DUT.
The reset bit is handled specially and can override the normal simulation reset
sequence.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Convert a file explicitly:
.IP
jtframe-cab reg.cab
.PP
Use the file through jtsim:
.IP
jtsim \-inputs reg.cab \-video 600 \-w 500
.PP
Simple cabinet script:
.IP
120
.br
2 coin
.br
8
.br
2 1p
.PP
Pulse a button in a loop:
.IP
loop
.br
1 b1
.br
1
.br
repeat 50
.PP
Wait until an absolute frame and then move once:
.IP
=400
.br
right
.SH FILES
.TP
\fBsim_inputs.hex\fR
Output generated in the current directory.
.SS "Usage:"
.IP
jtframe cab <filename> [flags]
.SS "Flags:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
help for cab
.SS "Global Flags:"
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbose
