.TH JTFRAME-MRA 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-mra \- generate MRA files from \fBmame2mra.toml\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe mra
.RI "<core-name core-name...>"
.br
.B jtframe mra
.B \-\-reduce
.RI "<path-to-mame.xml> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe mra\fR
parses a core's
\fBcfg/mame2mra.toml\fR
and
\fBcfg/macros.def\fR
to generate MiSTer MRA files, Pocket JSON metadata, and merged
\fB.rom\fR
images.
It is the ROM-description stage used by JTFRAME before simulation and release
packaging.
.PP
The normal XML input is
\fB$JTROOT/doc/mame.xml\fR.
If
\fB$JTROOT/doc/custom.xml\fR
exists, it is parsed afterwards and may override machines with the same name.
When
\fB--reduce\fR
is used, the command reads the supplied XML file and writes back a reduced
machine list suitable for keeping under
\fB$JTROOT/doc/\fR.
.PP
Output is written either to
\fB$JTROOT/release/\fR
or to
\fB$JTBIN\fR
when
\fB--git\fR
is selected.
.SS Workflow
.IP \[bu] 2
Load and expand
\fBcfg/macros.def\fR
before interpreting the TOML.
.IP \[bu] 2
Read machine data from
\fBmame.xml\fR
and the optional
\fBcustom.xml\fR
overlay.
.IP \[bu] 2
Apply the rules in
\fBmame2mra.toml\fR
to choose games, rename or edit DIP switches, generate headers, and build the
final ROM layout.
.IP \[bu] 2
Emit MRA and, unless disabled, Pocket JSON and merged
\fB.rom\fR
files.
.SS mame2mra.toml Schema
The configuration file is split into the following sections.
.TP
.B [global]
Global defaults.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBOrientation={ Fixed=true }\fR
forces a fixed orientation when MAME rotation data is not reliable.
.RE
.TP
.B [parse]
Machine selection and filtering rules.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsourcefile=[ "mamefile1.cpp", "mamefile2.cpp", ... ]\fR
selects machines from specific MAME driver files.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBparents=[ { name="parentset", description="Parent Description" } ]\fR
keeps clone families together even when the parent is not in the selected
\fBsourcefile\fR list. The description is used to name alternate folders.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBskip.Setnames=[ ... ]\fR
skips specific set names.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBskip.Bootlegs=true\fR
skips bootleg sets.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdebug={ machines=[ ... ], setnames=[ ... ] }\fR
marks entries that are not parsed when
\fB--nodbg\fR
is used.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBmustbe.devices=[ "i8751", ... ]\fR
requires the listed devices.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBmustbe.machines=[ "machine name", ... ]\fR
keeps only matching machine names.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBmain_setnames=[ "setname", ... ]\fR
promotes alternative sets as the main set when the nominal parent is not the
best default.
.RE
.TP
.B [Pocket]
Pocket-specific metadata.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdisplay_modes=[ 0x61, ... ]\fR
adds extra display modes for Analogue Pocket metadata.
.RE
.TP
.B [cheat]
Cheat-file selection.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdisable=false\fR
controls whether cheats are emitted at all.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBfiles=[ { filename="sameforall.s" }, { machine="baddudes", setname="", filename="hbarrel.s", skip=false } ]\fR
maps shared or per-game cheat files. By default the tool also looks under
\fBcores/<core>/cheat/<machine>.s\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B [dipsw]
DIP-switch editing rules.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBrename=[ { name="Bonus Life", to="Bonus", values=[ ... ] }, ... ]\fR
renames DIP labels and optionally value strings.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdelete=[ { machine="...", names=[ "Name*", "match??" ] }, ... ]\fR
deletes DIP entries using
\fB*\fR
and
\fB?\fR
matching.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBoffset=[ { machine="", setname="", name="", value=0 }, ... ]\fR
shifts the bit position used by a given MAME DIP tag.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBextra=[ { machine="", setname="", name="", options="", bits="" }, ... ]\fR
adds extra DIP options.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdefaults=[ { machine="", setname="", value="ff,ff" }, ... ]\fR
sets explicit default values byte by byte from LSB to MSB.
.RE
.TP
.B [header]
JTFRAME download-header description.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBinfo="Describe the header"\fR
documents the header contents.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBfill=0xff\fR
sets the default fill byte.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBPCBs=[ { machine="aliens" }, { machines=[ "crimfght", "gbusters" ] }, ... ]\fR
declares PCB identifiers that can be consumed from
\fBmacros.def\fR
or
\fBmem.yaml\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdata=[ { pcb_id=true, offset=0 }, { machine="...", setname="...", dev="...", offset=3, data="12 32 43 ..." }, ... ]\fR
defines explicit header bytes. The
\fBpcb_id=true\fR
entry writes the PCB-array information automatically.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBregisters=[ { name="scr2bpp", pos="1[0]", values=[ { machine="hopmappy", value=1 } ], desc="..." }, ... ]\fR
requests automatic header-module generation from named bitfields.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBoffset={ start=0, bits=8, reverse=true, regions=[ "maincpu", "gfx1", ... ] }\fR
creates a region-offset table in the header and also enables LUT parameters in
\fBjtframe_dwnld\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBframes=[ { width=8 }, ... ]\fR
overrides automatic frame trimming when black side bars in the original game
should be removed by the framework.
.IP \[bu] 2
The header length itself is set in
\fBmacros.def\fR
with
\fBJTFRAME_HEADER=<length>\fR.
.RE
.TP
.B [buttons]
Input-label overrides.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBnames=[ { setname="...", machine="...", names="shot,jump" } ]\fR
overrides the button names published in the MRA.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBdial=[ { machine="...", raw=true, reverse=true } ]\fR
controls dial polarity and whether raw, slower dial pulses are sent.
.RE
.TP
.B [ROM]
Merged-ROM layout rules.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBregions=[ ... ]\fR
lists which MAME ROM regions form the final
\fB.rom\fR
image.
.IP \[bu] 2
Each region entry may use fields such as
\fBname\fR,
\fBmachine\fR,
\fBstart\fR,
\fBwidth\fR,
\fBlen\fR,
\fBreverse\fR,
\fBno_offset\fR,
\fBoverrules\fR,
\fBsequence\fR,
\fBskip\fR,
\fBrename\fR,
\fBmirror\fR,
\fBrom_len\fR,
\fBremove\fR,
and
\fBfiles\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBname\fR
in
\fBregions=[ ... ]\fR
may use glob matching with
\fB*\fR
and
\fB?\fR
to merge several MAME regions into one ROM collection pass. This applies only
to
\fBROM.regions\fR
entries.
.IP \[bu] 2
Globbed region entries must match at least one MAME region or the command
fails.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsequence=[2,1,0,0]\fR
can reorder or repeat ROM files within a region.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBmirror=true\fR
duplicates content until the region is full instead of padding with
\fBFF\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBrom_len=0x20000\fR
duplicates data to match a larger PCB socket size.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBfiles=[ { name="myname", crc="12345678", size=0x200 }, ... ]\fR
replaces the ROM-file metadata from
\fBmame.xml\fR
for that region.
.IP \[bu] 2
Regions named
\fBnvram\fR
are skipped automatically.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBorder=[ "maincpu", "soundcpu", "gfx1", "gfx2" ]\fR
sets region order in the generated MRA.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBnvram={ ... }\fR
configures default NVRAM contents. Supported keys are
\fBmachines=[ ... ]\fR
and
\fBdefaults=[ { machine="...", setname="...", data="00 22 33..." }, ... ]\fR.
If a matching
\fB.nvm\fR
file exists in
\fBcfg/\fR
it will be used automatically.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsplits=[ { machine="...", offset=0x10000 }, { machine="...", offset=0x10000, min_len=0x2000 } ]\fR
splits each ROM file in halves and merges the halves independently.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBpatches=[ { machine="...", setname="...", offset=0x0000, data="01 02 03..." }, ... ]\fR
patches the final ROM image after any
\fBJTFRAME_HEADER\fR
adjustment.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBcarts=[ "rom", "bin" ]\fR
defines file extensions used for cartridge loading.
.RE
.PP
Compact example:
.RS
.nf
[global]
Orientation = { Fixed = true }

[parse]
sourcefile = [ "mamefile.cpp" ]
parents = [
  { name = "parentset", description = "Parent Description" }
]

[Pocket]
display_modes = [ 0x61 ]

[header]
info = "Describe the header"
fill = 0xff
offset = { start = 0, bits = 8, reverse = true, regions = [ "maincpu", "gfx1" ] }

[buttons]
names = [
  { machine = "game", names = "shot,jump" }
]

[ROM]
order = [ "maincpu", "soundcpu", "gfx1" ]
carts = [ "rom", "bin" ]
.fi
.RE
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-alt
Generate only alternative MRA files.
.TP
.BI "\-\-buttons " names
Override the button labels used by the game, up to six buttons.
.TP
.B \-g, \-\-git
Save files to
\fB$JTBIN\fR
instead of the release folder.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-mainonly
Parse only the main version of each game.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-md5
Calculate MD5 sums even when the ROM is not saved.
.TP
.B \-\-names
Print the title of each supported game.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Skip machines marked as debug-only in the TOML.
.TP
.BI "\-\-path " dir
Set the path to MAME zip files.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-reduce
Reduce the XML file to the entries required by the selected cores.
.TP
.B \-\-rm
Delete the release and ROM folders in
\fB$JTROOT\fR
before proceeding.
.TP
.BI "\-\-setname " name
Generate output only for the specified set name.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-show_platform
Print the platform name and quit.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-skipMRA
Do not generate MRA files.
.TP
.B \-\-skipPocket
Do not generate Pocket JSON files.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-skipROM
Do not generate merged
\fB.rom\fR
files.
.TP
.BI "\-\-url " text
Set the author URL used in generated metadata.
.TP
.BI "\-\-year " text
Override the year string used in the MRA comment.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-cfgstr (1),
.BR jtframe-mem (1),
.BR jtutil-mra (1),
.BR jtsim (1)
