.TH JTFRAME-UPDATE 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-update \- update compiled outputs or CI files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe update
.RI "[--cores] core1,core2,... <--target mist|mister...> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe update\fR
builds the list of release-oriented jobs used by the JTFRAME update flow.
It is intended for batch updates across several cores and targets.
.PP
Typical tasks include:
.IP \[bu] 2
extract MRA files
.IP \[bu] 2
compile FPGA cores
.IP \[bu] 2
generate schematic PDF files
.PP
The resulting job list is used by the
\fBjtupdate\fR
script to run work in parallel.
Arguments after
\fB--\fR
are forwarded directly to
\fBjtcore\fR.
.PP
The default output folder is
\fB$JTROOT/release\fR.
Use
\fB--git\fR
to write into
\fB$JTBIN\fR
instead and define
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-\-all
Update all target platforms.
.TP
.BI "\-c, \-\-cores " list
Comma-separated list of cores.
.TP
.BI "\-\-corestamp " text
Date string for the RBF file.
Passed through to
\fBjtcore\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-d, \-\-def " list
Comma-separated list of extra macros.
.TP
.B \-\-dry
Show the jobs without running them.
.TP
.B \-\-git
Use
\fB$JTBIN\fR
as the output and define
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-\-group " name
Core group specified in
\fB$JTROOT/.jtupdate\fR.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.BI "\-\-jobs " value
Limit the number of parallel jobs.
.TP
.B \-\-keep
Do not delete the release folder.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-mainonly
Parse only the main version of each game.
.TP
.B \-\-network
Allow network resources.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Define
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-nohdmi
Disable HDMI in the MiSTer build.
.TP
.B \-\-nosnd
Define the
\fBNOSOUND\fR
macro.
.TP
.B \-\-private
Build for the JTALPHA team.
This defines
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR
and enables a red OSD.
.TP
.BI "\-\-seed " value
Random-seed iteration used for compilation.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-skipRBF
Skip RBF generation and update only MRA files.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-skipROM
Skip ROM generation when parsing MRA files.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-target " list
Comma-separated list of targets.
The default is
\fBmist,sidi,sidi128,mister,pocket\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-mra (1),
.BR jtcore (1)
