.TH JTFRAME-MEM 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-mem \- generate RTL files from a core \fBmem.yaml\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe mem
.RI "<core-name> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe mem\fR
parses
\fBcores/<corename>/cfg/mem.yaml\fR
and generates the memory-related RTL and include files required by synthesis
and simulation.
It is the bridge between the declarative memory description in the core
configuration and the concrete files consumed later by
\fBjtframe files\fR,
\fBjtcore\fR,
and
\fBjtsim\fR.
.PP
Generated files are normally written under
\fBcores/<corename>/target/<target>/\fR.
With
\fB--local\fR,
output is written to the local verification or working folder instead.
.PP
The selected target matters because
\fBjtframe mem\fR
also consumes the target-side framework files already present under
\fB$JTFRAME/target/<target>/\fR.
.SS mem.yaml Syntax
All keys are strict: unknown keys cause parse errors.

The top-level file supports:
.TP
.B include
Import additional YAML fragments before applying the local file.
Entries are merged in order and the active file is reapplied after each include.
.RS
.nf
include:
  - { core: cop }
  - { file: ../../cop/cfg/mem.yaml }
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B params
Macro-like name/value pairs that can be reused in expressions.
.RS
.nf
params:
  - { name: V_OFFS, value: "(`VTABLE_START-`JTFRAME_BA2_START) >> 1" }
  - { name: SPR_OFFS, value: "(`SPRITE_START-`JTFRAME_BA3_START) >> 1" }
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B download
Add optional downloader and SDRAM remap hooks.
The booleans are
\fBpre_addr\fR,
\fBpost_addr\fR,
\fBpost_data\fR.
Set \fBnoswab\fR to skip byte swapping (prefer MRA-side handling).
.TP
.B ports
Extra game ports to generate in
\fBjt<core>_game.v\fR.
Fields are \fBname\fR, \fBmsb\fR, \fBlsb\fR, and \fBinput\fR.
.TP
.B game
Override the default game module name. Default is
\fB<core>_game\fR
or
\fB<core>_game_sdram\fR.
.TP
.B clocks
Clock-enable families keyed by source clock name (for example,
\fBclk24\fR,
\fBclk48\fR,
\fBclk\fR). Each item may set
\fBfreq\fR
(or \fBdiv\fR/\fBmul\fR),
\fBgate\fR, and
\fBoutputs\fR.
.TP
.B audio
Global audio mix/filter parameters and per-channel entries.
.RS
.nf
audio:
  gain: 1.2
  rsum: 1k
  mute: true
  rsum_feedback_res: false
  rc: { r: 1k, c: 1n }
  pcb:
    - { machine: pacland, rfb: 10k, rsums: [7.1k, 12.25k], pres: [1.0, 0.19] }
  channels:
    - { name: fm, module: jt51, rsum: 3.2k, rout: 100k, pre: 0.5,
        rc_en: true, vpp: 5, data_width: 12, stereo: true, unsigned: false,
        rc: [ { r: 1k, c: 33n }, { r: 1rout, c: 2.2n } ],
        fir: myfilter.csv }
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B sdram
Define SDRAM layout with either
\fBbanks\fR
or
\fBcache-lanes\fR
but not both.
If using
\fBbanks\fR,
the top-level
\fBbig_endian\fR
is invalid.
If using
\fBcache-lanes\fR,
\fBbig_endian\fR
is valid.
.RS
.nf
sdram:
  # optional for cache-lanes; ignored elsewhere
  big_endian: true
  burst: 128k
  banks:
    - buses:
      - name: tiles
        offset: GFXBASE
        addr_width: 18
        data_width: 16
        cache_size: 4
        rw: false
        gfx_sort: hvvv
        do_not_erase: true
        gfx_sort_en: gfx_sort_en
        simfile:
          name: tiles.bin
          big_endian: false
          data_type: u16
      - name: obj
        when: [ MISTER ]
        unless: [ TEST ]
        addr: obj_addr
        cs: obj_cs
        din: obj_din
        dsn: obj_dsn
        cache_size: 0
        offset: OBJ_OFFS
        data_width: 8
  # Use cache-lanes instead of banks for direct cache-backed SDRAM mappings.
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B bram
Define BRAM/ROM/PROM blocks, optional ioctl dump metadata, dual ports, ROM offsets.
.RS
.nf
bram:
  - name: workram
    size: 32kB
    data_width: 8
    rw: true
    we: ram_we
    addr: ram_addr
    din: ram_din
    dout: ram_q
    simfile: { big_endian: true }
    ioctl:
      save: true
      restore: true
      order: 0
      when: [ SIDI ]
      unless: [ JTFRAME_RELEASE ]
    dual_port:
      name: video
      addr: video_ram_addr
      din: video_ram_din
      dout: video_ram_dout
      rw: false
      we: video_ram_we
  - name: mcu_rom
    addr_width: 12
    data_width: 8
    simfile: {}
    rom:
      offset: 0x20000
  - name: prom_data
    addr_width: 11
    data_width: 8
    prom: true
.fi
.RE

.SS Supported Fields
For full precision, the parser supports these per-entry keys:
.TP
.B include[]
Required: none.
Supported: \fBcore\fR, \fBfile\fR.
.TP
.B params[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBvalue\fR.
If \fBvalue\fR is omitted, the parser uses the macro \fB<name>\fR.
.TP
.B download
Supported: \fBpre_addr\fR, \fBpost_addr\fR, \fBpost_data\fR, \fBnoswab\fR.
.TP
.B clocks.<base>[]
Supported: \fBfreq\fR, \fBdiv\fR, \fBmul\fR, \fBgate\fR, \fBoutputs\fR.
If \fBfreq\fR is omitted, \fBdiv\fR/\fBmul\fR are used.
At least one output is required.
.TP
.B ports[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBmsb\fR, \fBlsb\fR, \fBinput\fR.
.TP
.B audio
Supported: \fBmute\fR, \fBrc\fR, \fBrsum\fR, \fBrsum_feedback_res\fR, \fBgain\fR,
\fBpcb[]\fR, \fBchannels[]\fR.
.TP
.B audio.rc
Supported: \fBr\fR, \fBc\fR.
.TP
.B audio.pcb[]
Supported: \fBmachine\fR, \fBrfb\fR, \fBrsums\fR, \fBpres\fR.
.TP
.B audio.channels[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBmodule\fR, \fBrsum\fR, \fBrout\fR, \fBpre\fR, \fBvpp\fR,
\fBdcrm\fR, \fBstereo\fR, \fBunsigned\fR, \fBdata_width\fR, \fBrc_en\fR,
\fBfir\fR, \fBrc[]\fR.
.TP
.B sdram
Supported: \fBbanks\fR, \fBcache-lanes\fR, \fBburst\fR, \fBbig_endian\fR.
.TP
.B sdram.banks[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBoffset\fR, \fBaddr\fR, \fBaddr_width\fR, \fBdata_width\fR,
\fBcache_size\fR, \fBrw\fR, \fBdo_not_erase\fR, \fBdsn\fR, \fBdin\fR, \fBcs\fR,
\fBgfx_sort\fR, \fBgfx_sort_en\fR, \fBsimfile\fR, \fBwhen\fR, \fBunless\fR.
.TP
.B sdram.banks[].simfile
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBbig_endian\fR, \fBdata_type\fR (u16/u32).
.TP
.B sdram.cache-lanes[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBdata_width\fR, \fBblocks\fR, \fBat\fR, \fBrw\fR,
\fBsimfile\fR, \fBwhen\fR, \fBunless\fR.
.TP
.B sdram.cache-lanes.blocks
Supported: \fBcount\fR, \fBsize\fR.
.TP
.B sdram.cache-lanes.at
Supported: \fBbank\fR, \fBoffset\fR, \fBlength\fR.
.TP
.B sdram.cache-lanes.simfile
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBbig_endian\fR, \fBdata_type\fR (u16/u32).
.TP
.B bram[]
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBsize\fR, \fBaddr_width\fR, \fBdata_width\fR, \fBrw\fR, \fBwe\fR,
\fBaddr\fR, \fBdin\fR, \fBdout\fR, \fBsimfile\fR, \fBprom\fR, \fBioctl\fR,
\fBdual_port\fR, \fBrom\fR, \fBwhen\fR, \fBunless\fR.
.TP
.B bram.simfile
Supported: \fBbig_endian\fR.
.TP
.B bram.ioctl
Supported: \fBsave\fR, \fBrestore\fR, \fBorder\fR, \fBwhen\fR, \fBunless\fR.
.TP
.B bram.dual_port
Supported: \fBname\fR, \fBaddr\fR, \fBdin\fR, \fBdout\fR, \fBrw\fR, \fBwe\fR.
.TP
.B bram.rom
Supported: \fBoffset\fR.

.SS Validation and defaults
.IP \[bu] 2
Unknown keys are rejected with parse errors.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsdram.banks\fR and \fBsdram.cache-lanes\fR are mutually exclusive.
Use exactly one when defining SDRAM.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsdram.banks\fR requires 1 to 4 banks.
\fBsdram.cache-lanes\fR requires 1 to 8 lanes.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBaudio.channels[]\fR requires a non-empty \fBname\fR and \fBrsum\fR for every channel.
Unknown audio \fBmodule\fR values are rejected unless empty.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBclocks\fR entries require at least one output and a finite clock frequency.
\fBmul\fR/\fBdiv\fR are used to derive frequency when \fBfreq\fR is omitted.
\fBfreq\fR accepts unit suffixes p, n, u, m, k, M, G, T and optional `Hz`.
.IP \[bu] 2
SDRAM bank \fBdata_width\fR supports \fB8\fR, \fB16\fR, or \fB32\fR.
\fBgfx_sort\fR is limited to the supported permutations in parser source.
\fBcache_size\fR sets cache behavior per slot.
.IP \[bu] 2
Cache-lane \fBdata_width\fR supports \fB8/16/32/64/128\fR.
\fBcache-lanes[].blocks.size\fR must be a power-of-two with suffix \fBB\fR,
\fBk\fR, \fBkB\fR, \fBM\fR, or \fBMB\fR and at least 16.
Only lanes 0..3 may set \fBrw: true\fR.
\fBcache-lanes[].at\fR is optional; when omitted the lane uses full SDRAM space.
.IP \[bu] 2
Cache-lane offsets and lengths are evaluated through params/macro expressions.
\fBoffset\fR may be a parameter name or hexadecimal literal.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsdram.burst\fR must be a power of two and not exceed 512 bytes
(1024 when \fBJTFRAME_SDRAM_LARGE\fR is defined).
.IP \[bu] 2
BRAM uses either \fBsize\fR or \fBaddr_width\fR, not both.
If set, \fBsize\fR must be power-of-two, > 0, and no more than 512kB.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBsimfile.big_endian\fR is valid only for 16/32-bit BRAM, caches and SDRAM buses.
For cache lanes wider than 32 bits with big-endian simulation, \fBdata_type\fR is required.
.IP \[bu] 2
A BRAM entry with \fBprom: true\fR requires \fBdata_width <= 8\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
\fBbram.rom.offset\fR is interpreted in \fBprog_addr<<1\fR space; bank bits are
expected in bits [24:23] for MiST-family ROM layouts.

.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-inc
Always generate
\fBmem_ports.inc\fR.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-local
Write generated files to the local folder instead of the target folder.
.TP
.B \-\-nodbg
Enable release-mode parsing by defining
\fBJTFRAME_RELEASE\fR.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-target " name
Select the target platform.
The default is
\fBmist\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-files (1),
.BR jtframe-mra (1),
.BR jtutil-sdram (1),
.BR jtsim (1)
