.TH JTFRAME-MMR 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-mmr \- generate memory-mapped register RTL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe mmr
.RI "[core-name] [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe mmr\fR
reads
\fB$CORES/<core>/cfg/mmr.yaml\fR
and renders the template
\fB$JTFRAME/hdl/inc/mmr.v\fR
into generated Verilog modules under
\fB$CORES/<core>/hdl/\fR.
.PP
Each
\fBmmr.yaml\fR
entry defines one MMR block.
.SS Block Keys
.TP
.B include
Optional.
Imports definitions from another core.
It accepts:
\fBcore\fR
and optional
\fBname\fR.
\fBcore\fR
is mandatory and points to
\fB$CORES/<core>/cfg/mmr.yaml\fR.
\fBname\fR
can be omitted (imports all blocks),
one string (import one block), or a list of strings (import several blocks).
Examples:
\fB- include:\fR
\fB    core: shouse\fR
\fB    name: [cus30,cus116]\fR
\fB- include:\fR
\fB    core: shouse\fR
.TP
.B name
Required.
Block name.
The generated module is normally
\fBjt<core>_<name>_mmr.v\fR.
If
\fBno_core_name: true\fR
is set, the module becomes
\fBjt<name>_mmr.v\fR.
.TP
.B size
Required.
Number of bytes in the internal
\fBmmr[]\fR
array.
It must be at least 4.
.TP
.B dw
Optional.
Host bus width, either 8 or 16.
When
\fBdw: 16\fR
is used, the generated interface includes 16-bit
\fBdin\fR
and
\fBdout\fR
signals plus
\fBdsn\fR
byte strobes.
.TP
.B read_only
Optional.
When true, write handling and
\fBdout\fR
generation are omitted.
.TP
.B regs
Required.
List of exported register signals.
.SS Register Keys
.TP
.B name
Required.
Output signal name.
.TP
.B dw
Required unless
\fBevent\fR
is not
\fBnone\fR.
Output signal width.
.TP
.B at
Required.
Byte or bit mapping into
\fBmmr[]\fR.
Accepted forms are
\fBN\fR,
\fBN[B]\fR,
\fBN[MSB:LSB]\fR,
or a comma-separated list of those forms.
Example:
\fB0x10[7:0], 0x11[3:0]\fR.
.TP
.B event
Optional.
Select one-clock pulse generation for the first
\fBat\fR
address.
The default is
\fBnone\fR.
Accepted values are
\fBnone\fR,
\fBwrite\fR,
\fBany\fR,
\fBone\fR,
and
\fBzero\fR.
\fBwrite\fR
pulses on write access,
\fBany\fR
pulses on read or write access,
and
\fBone\fR
or
\fBzero\fR
pulse when writing that value to a bit-qualified
\fBat\fR
location.
If
\fBevent\fR
is not
\fBnone\fR
and
\fBdw\fR
is omitted or zero, the item is treated as event-only.
.TP
.B desc
Optional metadata only.
It does not affect code generation.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-parse (1),
.BR jtframe-mem (1)
