.TH JTFRAME-FILES 1 "April 2026" "JTFRAME" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jtframe-files \- generate simulation, synthesis, or plain file lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jtframe files
.RI "<sim|syn|plain> <core-name> [flags]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjtframe files\fR
reads the core description in
\fBcores/<corename>/cfg/files.yaml\fR
and merges it with JTFRAME-wide and target-specific file lists.
It is the step used by
\fBjtcore\fR
and
\fBjtsim\fR
to turn the project description into concrete file lists for synthesis or
simulation.
.SS Modes
.TP
.B sim
Generate simulation file lists.
This produces
\fBgame.f\fR
for Verilog and
\fBjtsim_vhdl.f\fR
for VHDL.
.TP
.B syn
Generate Quartus-oriented synthesis assignments.
This produces
\fBfiles.qip\fR.
.TP
.B plain
Generate a plain text file list named
\fBfiles\fR.
.SS Inputs
The base description comes from
\fBcores/<corename>/cfg/files.yaml\fR.
When
\fB--target\fR
is used,
\fBjtframe files\fR
also incorporates:
.IP \[bu] 2
\fB$JTFRAME/target/<target>/cfg/files.yaml\fR
.IP \[bu] 2
\fB$JTFRAME/target/<target>/cfg/sim.yaml\fR
when running in
\fBsim\fR
mode
.PP
The file list may reference other core folders or shared module folders.
JTFRAME keeps the declared order, which matters for SDC precedence and for VHDL
compilation order.
.SS Search Rules
.IP \[bu] 2
If only a path is given, JTFRAME looks for
\fBcfg/files.yaml\fR
in that path.
.IP \[bu] 2
HDL files are searched under the
\fBhdl/\fR
folder.
.IP \[bu] 2
SDC and QIP files are searched under
\fBsyn/\fR.
.IP \[bu] 2
YAML files used to generate more files are searched under
\fBcfg/\fR.
.SS Conditional Parsing
Entries may be gated with the usual JTFRAME macro conditions:
.TP
.B when
Parse the entry only when the named macro is defined.
.TP
.B unless
Parse the entry unless the named macro is defined.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show the short command help.
.TP
.B \-\-local
Refer to
\fBmem.yaml\fR-derived files in the local folder instead of the target folder.
.TP
.BI "\-m, \-\-macro " list
Add extra Verilog macros separated by commas.
.TP
.B \-\-rel
Output relative paths.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-target " name
Select the target platform, such as
\fBmist\fR,
\fBmister\fR,
or
\fBpocket\fR.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR jtframe (1),
.BR jtframe-mem (1),
.BR jtframe-cfgstr (1),
.BR jtsim (1),
.BR jtcore (1)
